Okay. So let us start with our first truck by Bryce who
will give us an introduction to asynchronous many
task system. Hi, everybody. So the asyncronous many task model refers
to this Paradigm that's used by a number of sort of
these more recent parallel programming frameworks
on a lot of which popped up around the 2010s or so.
In this model that the task is the basic atom of work
and I'm going to define task here is just the notion
of a function call which a run time system decides
when and where to execute in a sentence many tasks
systems passed are almost always oversubscribed
which means that there are many more tasks as there
are processing units and the tasks are usually variable
and execution time. So tasks could be as small as something
as as single instruction running on a single
cycle to something that runs for seconds or minutes
or even hours and not only are they variable
but you might have a application that has many different
granularities of tasks running at the same time.
So there's a typically a load balancing problem
that you have to deal with and these tasks they form
dependency graph among themselves either
implicitly or explicitly and that dendency graph
informs the scheduling decisions the run time system makes.
For AMTs that address multi-node parallelism.
Typically tasks are executed in some sort of global
object space that spans multiple nodes. One of the
one of the interesting properties of AMTs are the
ones that deal with distributed computing as well
is that they offer a unified approach to both thread
and node level parallism. AMTs tend to be very well
suited to applications that need dynamic load balancing
because you don't know at the start of the application
where exactly the work will be needed for example
application to do adaptive mesh refinement. And
that's pretty much it. Okay. Thanks for your introduction
to the asyncronous many task model. Let us start with
our first state-of-the-art talk and this will be by Sanjay
about the Charm++ runtime system. Thanks Patrick,
I will briefly introduce/describe what Charm++
is and then a its capabilities and the little bit
of its task underpinnings and then current results.
A computation specified by a Charm++ program is a selection of globally visible objects and they
connect with each other communicate with each other
through asynchronous method invocations. That
means when you send a method invocation to another
object, you don't wait for the return value of the
processors are there. Of course, the programmers
mind is not on processors, but they exist and run
time system is responsible for assigning these
objects to processors. So and the programmer doesn't
know we're at an object live. Doesn't need to know
each processor has many objects and Method invocation
waiting for it. So there's a user space scheduler
to decide what runs next. As an example, look at
this purple object on the top Left if it wants to invoke
a method in this yellow object on bottom right
It doesn't know where is located body can handle
the method invocation to the runtime system which
figures out through its distributed location manager
where that object it thinks is currently located
in the scheduler's queue there and eventually is picked up by
the scheduler method is invoked and that invloves
more method invocations for other objects. So
that's the essential execution model. The runtime system
of course knows who's talking to whom which object
is heavy and which object is light and which processor
is over and underloaded and so periodically can
move these objects around to balance load. So
underneath. I thought I should mention a little
bit of under the hood underpinnings here. The
layer under Charm++ is called Converse and it provides
scheduling and he I show one node and two cores
every core is running a scheduler and the entities
that it's schedules are user-level threads or active
messages on a special cases. There is gross method
invocation of these Charm++ objects. Te Converse
system, of course because you have control over
individual schedule a flexible schedule such as
OpenMP tasks and very carefully controlled a type
of sharing and so on. Converse is designed in 1996
is still under using in Charm++. If you want to look on
the modern successor to it then I would point to
Autobots. So Charm++ based on all these runtime tasks
that we talked about combined with introspection
and so on. It provides dynamic load balancing of course
and fault tolerance. You can change the number of nodes which is important for
cloud computing. It supports energy optimization and so on.
Charm++ is just one of the multiple programming
systems available on top of being this family of
programming models and CharmMPI which is implemented
on top of Charm++ to support the MPI programming
model fully. And there is a Python implementation
and so on and so forth.
There are over a dozen applications that routinely
run on supercomputers. The probably the most familiar
most known is NAMD for biophysics. And there are
interesting application papers. I just thought I would mention
a few papers if people are interested to follow up
on topics that might be interesting along with mini
apps and I will give you a reference at the end where
to look up please. So a little bit of summary of
recent last year's result. We have quite a bit
of work in our group on energy related going back
to maybe eight years ago using this adaptive run
time to control energy and temperature and power
and so on. One of the recent things that we did was
automatically turning cores on and off. So users
don't think I would use four or five processors.
That's too many and I get into memory bandwidth
issues are used. All that can be automated
to a run time selection mechanism by the feature
that one of my student is working on. The other advances
at CharmWorks under a
Department of energy grant. We have made a adaptive
MPI much more advanced. It's much more standard
compliant, it has more automatic. Running MPI codes
and so without making much changed your code at all
and did a lot of performance improvements that have
gotten in productivity. Finally I like to talk
just a bit about communication optimizations as
you know, and I think that the point we will
come back trom time to time. Is that
communication or decomposition is actually very
nice, but communication because injection happens
over time multiple times in a Time step you will be
different objects would be injecting messages
into the network, which is a good because your network
has been more evenly utilized. This is fine. But
more recent thing that we have work done is how to
combine that with this idea of spreading Loops.
So first in the context of the multi core programs
the question becomes do you want
that each core has its own set of objects,
or do you want to spread the loop or a subset of them?
And so they the choice between over decomposition
along the x-axis and and the spreading of loops on
all cores or a subset of cores. On the other axis
and to exploring this is another thing that we have
recently done with Michael Robson thesis and similar
efforts are on for GPUs use as well. If you want to
learn more about it that are the links here one for
the CharmWorks and one for the research group. Thank
you. Thank you for introducing Charm++. Let us go
for the second state-of-the-art to talk about see
Julia programming language given by Keno Fisher.
Yeah, thanks. Patrick's. I dive right in and I have about
three marketing slides up top for anybody who hasn't
heard about Julia by this point. Hopefully not
too many of you. But Juli is a relatively new programming
language. First released around 2012 and 1.0 was released 2 years ago
in 2018. More than two million downloads and 4000 packages. Here are some of the companies using it and some of the universities teaching it. Here are some books. Let us talk about parallism.
I want to start with the use case and the application that has driven a lot of our design requirements
testing system as well as informed a lot of the challenges
that we're trying to address and that's the Celeste
problem that we did three years ago. First
peta-scale Julia application which was an astronomical
image analysis application on 1.3 million threads
and a very large scale data analysis
problem, 60 terabytes of data. And what made this problem so interesting, was a regular parallism on all levels of the abstraction stack.
So, it had a regular workload schedule in
each region of the sky has different numbers of stars
and the workload was proportional to the number of stars.
And then, you know different sizes of the workload
was highly highly irregular and only stay at the
SIMD level of the individual thread. This is the
kind of application were a task based sytem is really
really useful. Because each of these individual work
items can be expressed as a task. Given the topic of this panel it is
no surprise that the task is the fundamental
schedule unit. A very simple and trivial Fobonacci implementation which is notsupposed to be sufficient.
So we just used tasks for both concurrency and parallelism.
For concurrency in particular it is integrated with a performant IO scheduler. That do not matter in the HPC context, but for applications running in the cloud infrastrucuture.
Were data fetches are some hhtp requests to some
external service or a database schedule. The tasks are supposed
to have a very low and such that you can just move them.
So how to reschedule this fast while we have a scheduler
which is very useful one problem that you sometimes
systems or regular or something like that.
system could help so by addressing a scheduling
a model to sort of schedule things that extra memory
locations that flows together. We hopefully get
the best of both worlds from a star system as well
as concurrency and parallelism that you would expect
from a task a system which is really important to
us as soon as language. Authors does one thing that
you let us all about is composability and only if
all of our library authors can express parallelism
concurrency opportunities by the existing the
libraries and not have to worry about the of us subscribing
the system and chilling performance and I just the
work of Houston people get my college in Jackson.
Now working on Moto we have a default for you, which
is so that extends the task dependencies to the global
level is called dagger and think of it like that on
the schedule. I can has it been a schedule at work
if you know more about your scheduling process,
so you have a choice so you can just add them. Lastly
a word on active work. So wondering active reading
this more with a compiler optimization sancocho
optimization say I feel like staying in darian's
operations out of tasks to avoid as well as potentially
adjusting scheduling hits based on information
that may be available in the unification of the century
models of Julia has a very mature native generation
capabilities. We expose the same kind of like to
unify the attractions of a task and the extraction
of a plane into directions. So 1 But you would like
to take the same key programming model actually
raise it a bit such that if you have a parallel to exchange
some data, you could express that in the same to you
like programming bottle. Even if your fundamental
unit is not a CPU thread, but say a note get so Julia
likes to do things like get specialized code based
on ovulation be able to remove that comes out of the
gym and move it around. Thanks for the talk. Does
he like to talk to me about zhp X Red X system given
by advertising? I get bad break. I love her body.
What I would like to do is to give you a quick introduction
into hbx. I apologize the general analysis of the
problems. We are facing and parole application
today. If you look at the landscape of the tools of
the application developers in Boca Raton, you usually
get you just see that there are many tools available.
But only few tools. I actually being designed to
work together. So you can somehow I have that pile
of blocks you have to put together as a programmer
and have to Brookfield brain around. How'd you come
by and get the from paradigms exposed by the different
program in Mobile strike and he in turn signal application.
Still the problem is kind of depicted in this image
of what you see is utilization, of course of a typical
power lines application where each horizontal
line represents YouTube version of 1 cor and the
greenish highlighted regions are the ones when
the cores actually busy and the whitish gaps in between
just show when the car is idle. What would be seen
these applications? Very awesome is that the courts
are utilized nicely paralyzed but you have these
utilization gaps in between and those are caused
by the way of the programming models. Suggest we
use them General. I believe that there is some models
we have to do it today. Mostly of my pmf expose insufficient
parallelism by Design. They make it possible for
you to use more sophisticated means of getting into
the parallelism by overlapping computation communication
or by introducing message and things like that.
But the problem that has all ways to invest additional
F-word in order to make those things available to
the application example is the invoice Berry at
the end of the Perla for Loop in the end of my pee which
causes the synchronization across course or the
global communication barrier. Show me as I said,
you can overcome that but you have to invest additional
effort to a cheetah. We tend to always somewhere
nice things more things than are required by the
algorithm example for that is that lock stepping
between notes that causes for the application online
for the Rings to always be on the same times to get
very messy. When you start trying to decouple the
time stepping on the different notes in the simulation
Swanson's I also believe that there's insufficient
coordination between the unloading of note paralyzation
a techniques we have available to us just to make
us down release talk to each other. Notable good
example is in the integration of empty. I was envious
and we link Technologies for instance, but I would
like to see a much deeper integration of Judah and
the other Technologies in the future mostly to avoid
that. The Bro, has to deal with sting probing models
for different types of problem. I'm all that set
of we have taken these problems too hard and have
kind of designed HB X from first principles in the
way that it is an API to the user that doesn't require
additional effort to overcome these problems.
I was listing if you use the HP xapi, which is by the
way of a very much is a Blow Pop sonnets from forming.
So if you know c-plus plus 11 plus 40 in these broken
wings. Then you can go ahead. Music directing hbx
was out running. So if you use that API that expensive
but that's all these nice features from your application,
like overlapping communication with computation
active messages latency hiding moving work today
tomorrow and so on and so on. Hbx about exposing interface
API, which is stomachs oriented and the important
thing here this context and semantics for local
remote operation. Enables a a synchronous C plus
plus programming model which techniques and if
you are interested in those things, I can refer you
to other folks. I have given at cppcon and other conferences.
Please go there to get more information. It allows
to intrinsically height of the intrinsic hiding
of legacies and automatic load balancing on the
note in the crossroads. Just to give you an example
of how that API looks like. It's on the left how long
you have the standard apis like since Reds and stick
new directions that they sing and on the right, You
have the corresponding API which has the same name
and not surprisingly absolutely the same semantics
as of the Senate versions except that we have extended
them to work in the distributor contacts. So you
can find a function locally send it over the wire
and then we'll get on the other end. I also notable
that it be exhausted all the only for the only library
that gives you the full set of pro algorithms that
have been except for 17. So not even that comes with
a library that comes with all of them. If you want
to play around with the Nexus one of the ways to do
that a quick example, and I want to introduce you
to a astrophysics application which is kind of lunch
application for hbx. It's a multi-modal multiscale
accepted mesh refinement. Vacation that is used
to model. The measure of white dwarfs are we have
run this application very successfully on several
big machines. We have run it. On the phone system
wrong on Corey couple of years back last year. We
have done something. Runs on it stains the largest
machine in Europe 5500 notes and over all these simulations
have scheduled several billions of threats of Walla
Walla running what you see here on this graph is essentially
the result of a scaling analysis of this astrophysics
application, which is called off the tiger. Let's
focus on the blue lines only you see for Ralphs one
for each system science. And as you can see the scaling
we achieved on the phone this application was in
the range of about 78% weed scaling efficiency from
one notch two, Thousand Oaks. About 68% scaling
efficiency for instance from 500 notes to 2K notes.
So bye. Bye this application by using the techniques
hbx allows you to use. So what is if you use the techniques
I described you end up with squeezing your mobile
execution and very nicely because the utilization
of the course goes up significantly and what we actually
hope that this uniform API, and we're working closely
was it's a musician, She always try to contribute
to the standardization committee that we finally
end up with a uniform if you hide that can be used for
all kind. All of them's on all levels on the system
and is made available to the program on to write applications
appeal from the sand from the laptop to open the Raspberry
Pi. So that the thank you so much. Thank you, and we
will put the electric lights you have seen on the
panels webpage.